The series is a modernized take on the legendary Hanna-Barbera brand, as its’ characters live, work, play and destroy the town together with their everyday lives being turned into madcap hilarity and all of them having specific roles in the community; Huckleberry Hound is mayor, Yogi Bear is a surgeon, Jabberjaw works at Magilla Gorilla’s haberdashery, Top Cat and his Hoagy’s Alley gang continue with their scam activities, El Kabong doubles as a teacher and superhero, the list goes on.
Intro gags
During the theme song, a gag will occur during the citizens' marching that will knock down some buildings and cause everyone to run. The following gags have occurred:
The spaceship of Bleep from Josie and the Pussycats in Outer Space crashing into a building. (Seen in episodes 1, 5 and 9.)
Mildew Wolf tripping over a fire hydrant causing a torrent of water to hit a building. (Seen in episodes 2, 6 and 10.)
Grape Ape accidentally knocking down a building. (Seen in episodes 3 and 7.)
Speed Buggy accidentally backing into a building before driving off. (Seen in episodes 4 and 8.)
 
 
Yogi Bear - A brown bear who is a doctor at Jellystone Hospital. Yogi is self-assured, though a goofball. His first love is food, and crazy schemes will sometimes come into play in order to get his paws on some goodies. 
Cindy Bear - A brown bear who is a doctor at Jellystone Hospital. Cindy completes the trio of hospital bears, at times acting as the team’s take-charge leader. Her obsession with dangerous inventions and unauthorized medical procedures typically leads to chaos. However, when her ideas backfire, Cindy will often feign ignorance.
Boo Boo - A brown bear who is a nurse at Jellystone Hospital. Boo Boo is Yogi’s mild-mannered sidekick, housemate, and best buddy. Though somewhat meek and less prone to wackiness, he is loyal to his more off-the-wall friends.
Augie Doggie - An eager young pup who has a close relationship with her father. One of Augie's favorite father-daughter activities is exchanging fifty kisses. Her two best friends are Shag Rugg and Yakky Doodle. It was revealed in "My Doggie Dave" that Augie is 11 years old, or "132 months old" according to Doggie Daddy (However, an 11 year old dog would be 77 years old in dog years or she'd possibly be nearing the age of 14). Unlike her original counterpart, Augie is depicted as a girl in this show.
Doggie Daddy - Augie Doggie's father and an excitable helicopter canine parent. Nothing makes Doggie Daddy happier than spending time with his daughter, whom he has a hard time leaving alone.
Huckleberry Hound - A Bluetick Coonhound who is the Mayor of Jellystone. Huck is laidback and simplistic - and simple-minded - in his approach to running Jellystone. The town's weekly chaos typically gets a calm reaction from Huckleberry.
Top Cat - A cat who is the slick, conniving leader of the alley cats. T.C. is often seen cooking up schemes to sucker the residents of Jellystone and pocket some quick cash.
Benny the Ball - A member of Top Cat's gang.
Choo-Choo - A member of Top Cat's gang who is depicted as a girl in this show.
Brain - Brain is a member of Top Cat's gang who retains more of a sarcastic tone and habit of using the word “like” in the middle of sentences (a trait previously attributed to Spook). Like Choo-Choo, she is also depicted as a girl in this show.
Fancy Fancy - A member of Top Cat's gang.
Spooky - A genderbent version of Spook who is now depicted as the gang’s brainless and silent cook.
El Kabong - A horse and teacher at the school who doubles as the town’s own guitar-wielding superhero. Unlike his original counterpart, El Kabong remains as his superhero persona with no hint of an alter ego ever being revealed. He also displays a Latino accent, reminiscent of Zorro's.
Jabberjaw - A cheerful shark who is Magilla's star employee. Unlike previous incarnations of the character, Jabberjaw is depicted as a girl and no longer talks like Curly from The Three Stooges. Jabberjaw is boy-crazy, with a readiness to please the male residents of Jellystone. She seems to be particularly fond of El Kabong.
 
Captain Caveman - A fun-loving caveman who often hangs out with the likes of Yogi Bear and Jabberjaw. Captain Caveman lives in a van, the interior of which resembles a cave.
Snagglepuss - The town's enthusiastic media mountain lion, and Mayor Huckleberry Hound’s go-to for public relations.
Magilla Gorilla - A gorilla who is the owner of a haberdashery, which specializes in bow ties and hats. Unlike his earlier counterpart, Magilla is a fashion freak, seeing his clothing style as art and wears a pair of glasses.
Wally Gator - A cheerful dimwitted alligator. In one episode, it’s implied that Wally lives in the sewers of Jellystone.
Yakky Doodle - Yakky is depicted as a little girl duck and no longer speaks in buccal speech. She is an overly cautious worrywart, and is best friends with Augie Doggie and Shag Rugg.
Mr. Jinks - Mayor Huckleberry Hound’s personal feline assistant.
Loopy De Loop - A French-Canadian wolf who is Jabberjaw’s coworker and friend. Like Jabberjaw, Loopy is depicted as a girl. While her original counterpart displayed a friendliness and do-good spirit, Jellystone's Loopy is often aloof and sarcastic, often making such suggestions as burning down the clothing store.
Peter Potamus - A lonely Otaku and martial arts enthusiast hippopotamus who spends time with his action figures (in lieu of actual friends). Other times, he tries to hang out with the other citizens.
Shag Rugg - One of The Hillbilly Bears, Shag is a cool bear cub with a penchant for hip lingo and a fun, stylish life.
Mildew Wolf - A flamboyant wolf. In one episode, Mildew attempts to flirt with Shazzan, indicating that the character is portrayed as a gay person.
Squiddly Diddly - An octopus who is the proprietor of the music store. Squiddly has been gender switched, and speaks with a valley girl accent, she is best friends with Bobbie Looey.
Bobbie Looey - Based on Baba Looey from The Quick Draw McGraw Show. Unlike Baba, Bobbie is a well-spoken business-donkey and is a lady, she is best friends with Squiddly Diddly.
Winsome Witch - A witch who runs the hospital cafeteria.
Speed Buggy - A dune buggy with working facial features.
Bleep - An alien who pays a visit in the episode “Mr. Flabby Dabby Wabby Jabby.”
Shazzan - A jovial genie who is seen working a variety of vending jobs in Jellystone.
Grape Ape - A purple 40 ft. gorilla.

Jonny Quest and Hadji - The operators of Quest Bowl, the town’s bowling alley. Originally from the Jonny Quest franchise, the two are depicted as adults and a married couple in this show.
Touché Turtle - Jellystone’s chief of police and a less intelligent Musketeer-like swords-turtle.
Yippee, Yappee and Yahooey - Three silly dog police officers who, like Touche, dress in Musketeer-style clothing and carry around swords. Yappee is depicted as a girl in this show.
The Banana Splits - Originating from The Banana Splits Adventure Hour, the Banana Splits are depicted as hardened yet cartoonish criminals and the town's biggest troublemakers that clash with El Kabong. At one point, they recalled that they used to be cool.
Fleegle - A Beagle and the Banana Splits' leader. Unlike his live-action counterpart and his animated counterpart in The Banana Splits in Hocus Pocus Park, Fleegle's tongue doesn't hang out of his mouth while he speaks nor does he speak in a lisp.
Bingo - An orange ape and member of the Banana Splits. In this show, Bingo is shown to be the largest of the group.
Drooper - A lion and member of the Banana Splits.
Snorky - An elephant and member of the Banana Splits that mostly makes honking sounds.
Lippy the Lion and Hardy Har Har - A lion and a hyena. Unlike their original counterparts, Lippy and Hardy are depicted as an elderly Jewish couple, with Hardy’s gender switched.
Ruff and Reddy - Ruff and Reddy are depicted as a pair of robot kids who are a cat and a dog with a bit of a friendly rivalry.
Cavey Jr. - Captain Caveman's equally rambunctious son whom he discovers frozen in one of Jellystone's ice caps.
The Hillbilly Bears - Shag Rugg’s hillbilly family who run the Mud Bug Cafe. 
Paw Rugg - Shag Rugg's father.
Maw Rugg - Shag Rugg's mother.
Floral Rugg - Shag Rugg's older sister.
Granny Sweet - A kindly elderly woman who is the town's judge. 
Chopper - Chopper is depicted as a female and is Yakky Doodle's adoptive canine mother. She's tougher than her daughter and not afraid to be lovingly rough. Chopper runs the Cattanooga Cheese Explosion pizzeria.
So So - A monkey who previously played Peter Potamus' sidekick on The Peter Potamus Show. So So is rarely seen in Jellystone, but does appear as Peter's fight trainer in the episode "Jelly Wrestle Rumble".
Brenda Chance, Dee Dee Sykes, and Taffy Dare - Formerly Captain Caveman’s teammates in Captain Caveman and the Teen Angels, these three are seen working various jobs at Jellystone, including receptionists at the Jellystone Hospital and newscasters. Dee Dee is also seen working at the Cattanooga Cats restaurant.
 
The King - A cool, Fonzie-like lion who rivals Top Cat in the episode "Cats Do Dance". King and his friends are talented dancers. 
Big H - A hippopotamus and member of King's group who is depicted as a girl in this show.
Clyde - A light-brown gorilla and member of King's group.
Skids - An alligator and member of King's group who is depicted as a girl in this show.
Yuka Yuka - A hyena and member of King's group.
President Ranger Smith - The hospital administrator. 
The Funky Phantom - A ghost who was formerly a famous wrestler, and Mayor Huckleberry Hound’s childhood hero. The Funky Phantom now works as an avocado salesman.
Atom Ant - A tiny ant with incredible physical strength.
Pixie and Dixie - A pair of mice who are always seen together. Dixie is depicted as a female person in this show, it is unknown that they are portrayed as brother and sister, children or a married couple.
Lambsy - A young skateboarder lamb.
Bristle Hound - a dog who is the court bailiff.
Ding-a-Ling Wolf - A small wolf.
The Great Gazoo - A sociopathic green alien who hosts the virtual reality game "BuddyBlasters" in the episode “Gotta Kiss Them All”.
The Cattanooga Cats - Consisting of Country, Kitty Jo, Scoots, and Groove, the rock band is depicted as singing animatronics at the Cattanooga Pizza Explosion that are similar to The Rock-afire Explosion band and Munch's Make-Believe Band at Chuck E. Cheese. Their dog Teeny Tim is depicted as a robot waiter in this show. 
